--- 1 - CDP.pdf ---
Advanced Structure 
Engineering Abaqus
Tutorial
2020Ar m i n  Yo u s e f i  K a n a n i

--- 10 - s2.0-S1877705816344484-main.pdf ---
 Procedia Engineering   173  ( 2017 )  190 – 197 
1877-7058 © 2017 The Authors. Published  by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license 
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
Peer-review under responsibility of the organizing committee of Implast 2016
doi: 10.1016/j.proeng.2016.12.057 ScienceDirectAvailable online at www.sciencedirect.com
11th International Symposium on Plasticity and Impact Mechanics, Implast 2016  
Simulation and Analysis of Ballis tic Impact using Continuum 
Damage Mechanics (CDM) Model  
Manoj Kumara*, Utkarsh Deepb, P M Dixtc 
a Research Scholar, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India  
b Dual  Student, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India  
cProfessor,Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India  
Abstract  
Ballistic Impact is the study of behaviour of ductile targets s ubjected to projectile impact. In this work, simulation and 
analysis is done by using the Continuum Damage Mechanics (CDM) model on ballistic impact of steel (IS2062: 2006 
GR E410W A) target using a rigid projectile. The Con tinuum Damage Mechanics model is implemented in 
ABAQUS/Explicit through a user defined material mod el subroutine (VUMAT). The developed VUMAT is va lidated 
by comparing the simulated results in tensile test with experimen tal results. The effect of the temperature and the strain 
rate are

--- 11 - 1275-ACE-FULLPAPER-ConstitutiveModelingofUnreinforcedMasonryWallswithandwithoutOpenings.pdf ---
1  
Constitutive Modeling of Unreinforced Masonry  Walls With and  
Without Openings  
 
 
 
M. Karslioglu1, Z. Unsal Aslan2, B. Doran3, C. Vatansever4 
 
1Department of Civil Engineering, YTU, Istanbul , Turkey , mkoglu@yildiz.edu.tr  
2Department of Civil Engineering, YTU, Istanbul , Turkey , zeynepunsalaslan@gmail.com   
3Department of Civil Engineering, YTU , Istanbul , Turkey , doran@yildiz.edu.tr  
4Department of Civil Engineering, ITU, Istanbul , Turkey , cuneyt.vatansever@itu.edu.tr  
 
Abstract  
 
Masonry walls are a composite, consisting of bricks together with mortar, and exhibits inelastic, anisotropic, and 
non-homogeneous material behavior. The development of computer based finite element models provides an 
algorithm with various constitutive la ws to achieve the nonlinear behavior of masonry walls under combined axial 
and lateral loads. Many constitutive models are developed to represent the structural behavior of unreinforced 
masonry (URM) walls.  This study primarily aims to identify suitable c onstitutive models and exhibit their shear 
capabilities of URM walls. For this purpose, a nonlinear three -dimensional finite element model at a macro -level 
using ABAQUS software has been developed to simulate the nonlinear response of URM walls with and wi thout 
opening. A  fine mesh is used  where a strong variation of the gradient of displacement is present around the opening 
and the constitutive law implemented in the model is selected as Concrete Damaged 

--- 12 - 1434-F1-Tahat.pdf ---
 
Finite element modelling of masonry wall retrofitted with 
combination of textile -reinforced mortar and thermal 
insulation  
Hamza Tahat1(✉) and Idris Bedirhanoglu2  
1 Dicle  University, Diyarbakir, 21280, Turkey  
2 Natural and Applied Science , Civil Engineering Department  
hamzatahat52 @gmail.com , idrisbed@gmail.com  
 
Abstract. This work presents a finite element (FE) model for retrofitted masonry 
walls. The masonry wall was retrofi tted with a combination of textile reinforced 
mortar (TRM)  and thermal insulation. For finite element analysis, ABAQUS 
software has been implemented. The subject of this study is an investigation of 
the effectiveness of FE method in the prediction of strength and deformation 
capacit y of retrofitted masonry walls, in addition to studying the effects of 
retrofitting materials on the capacity of masonry walls. Concrete damage 
plasticity (CDP) was implemented by utilizing the macro model approach. After 
the development of the FEM model, the same case studies have been carried out, 
and the results have been compared with experimental ones. Wall specimens 
tested under out -of-plane cyclic loading has been selected for FEM analysis. In 
the FE analysis, five parameters have been considered: a) unreinforced  masonry 
(URM)  wall as a control specimen; b) only TRM was applied to both sides of the 
wall without thermal insulation panels; c) TRM and thermal insulation were 
applied to both sides of the wall; d) only thermal insulation

--- 13 - 75937-Artikkelinteksti-123761-2-10-20190815.pdf ---
Rakenteiden Mekaniikka (Journal of Structural Mechanics)
Vol. 52, No 2, 2019, pp. 87{113
https://rakenteidenmekaniikka.journal.fi/index
https://doi.org/10.23998/rm.75937
c2019 The Authors
Open access under license CC BY 4.0
Behavior of the Abaqus CDP model in simple stress states
Alexis Fedoro1, Kim Calonius and Juha Kuutti
Summary. In order to use the Abaqus Concrete Damaged Plasticity (CDP) material model
in simulations of reinforced concrete structures, one has to understand the eect of various
parameters of the material model. Although most of the material parameters can be determined
from standard concrete tests, some parameters need more advanced tests to be determined. In
impact simulations one often has only limited material data available, and it makes therefore
sense to study the parameter sensitivity of the material model in order to x realistic parameter
values. In this paper, the sensitivity of the simulation response with respect to two model
parameters is studied: the dilation angle and the tensile to compressive meridian ratio. The
sensitivity study is performed in three simple but representative stress states: the uniaxial
tension state, the conned uniaxial compressive state and the pure shear state. Finally, it is
discussed how these simple stress states relate to the element removal criteria, which is necessary
in simulations involving fragmentation.
Key words: material modelling, elasto-plastic material with scalar damage, Abaqus Concrete
Damage Plast
